>> Richard Feldman: Now another thing
that we sort of have an intuition for
that it ought to work without necessarily
knowing how it ought to be represented is
the following.
So a and b is a list of strings, we also
have 1.1, 2.2, that's a list of floats.
What is this?
Well, it's not a list of floats or
a list of strings.
This sounded silly, there's no floats
in it, there's no strings in it.
This, the type of this is the list of a or
list of vowel or
a list of element, whatever you want.
Point being,
it's a list with an unbound type variable.
Which is just to say this is a value
where it works with anything.
It's a completely flexible list.
If you want, you can stick a list.float
together with a list of a,
a lowercase a, and that'll work.
You can combine, you can attach
an empty list to anything you want.
Cuz it's empty,
it's harmless, it, [LAUGH].
You can combine it, you can smash
a million of them onto a list of floats or
a list of strings and
that'll totally work.
Because an empty list is compatible
with any other list type.
So this is sort of an unbound
type variable, and
it means that it works anytime you
expect a list with any type parameter.
You can always give it an empty list,
you always give it any list that
still has an unbound type parameter.
So, an example of this, string.concat
says give me a list of strings,
and I will smash them together and
give you a string.
So, this is kinda like string.join,
but without a joining character.
It's like give me a list of strings and
I will smoosh them all
together into one string.
Ooh, smoosh, is that too soon?
All right.
That joke's not gonna work,
[LAUGH] in a year.
string.concat, ab and c, that'll
combine those two together into abc.
I can also pass string.concat empty list,
even though that's not
little list of strings.
If I have a list with
an unbalanced type variable,
I can provide that to any list, any
function that accepts a list of any type.
So I can, of course, say yeah,
string.concat that, and
it's gonna give me back empty string.
That totally works even though it's
not literally a list of strings, and
technically string.concat
says that's what it expects.
Okay, another example of this,
going with moving the type variable
to the other side, is String.lines.
So this says given a string,
I will break it on new line characters and
give you back a list of all of the lines.
So I can say String.lines "A\nB", and
that will give me back A and B because
there's one new line in between there.
Again I can pass it
String.lines empty string and
that will give me back an empty list.
But this will not be an empty list
of that is of type, oop, list a.
That will actually be an empty
list as a type List String.
Because String.lines says,
I always return a lists of string.
No matter what you give me,
I will never give you back anything
other than list of string.
All of which is to say that, despite
the fact that you have an empty list,
it's not the case that there's
always an unbound type variable.
It depends on how you got it.
If you got it by just literally writing
open square bracket, close square bracket,
yes, that has an unbound type variable.
Now you can still end up with
an empty list that does in fact
have a bound type variable,
as is the case here.
Okay, so we can have that in
an unbound type variable with lists.
We can also have it with HTML.
And this gets back to something that
someone asked a question about,
I think the the fourth,
part four exercises.
So here we have a div
that says onClick Toggle.
And that is an HTML message with
a concrete type variable of our message
type, and that's because of the onClick.
This right here is an image that
has a source attribute, but
it doesn't do any event handling.
Because it doesn't do any event handling,
technically speaking,
we can annotate it like this,
HTML with an unbound type variable.
That's totally legit because
the type variable specifies here is
what type of message this thing can
produce in response to user input.
But this image doesn't do anything
in response to user input,
which is to say yeah,
it responds to no user input with means
that it doesn't broadcast any message.
Which means that it's compatible with
any HTML that we want to use it with.
Now in the course of
building our application,
we don't necessarily care about
that because we're probably
only gonna have one message type that
we're dealing with at a time anyway.
But this does matter
when we're reusing it.
If I want to use this in one project and
then publish a package where it can be
used in multiple different projects,
maybe one of them uses HTML string.
One of them uses HTML
message that looks this way,
another one uses Html message that
looks at it completely different way.
Anytime I have something like this image
I can just drop it in anywhere and
it's just totally gonna work.
Now again as previously mentioned there's
other tactics to working with this when
you're in that situation, which we'll
get into in the advanced workshop.
But the point being this is an example
of a list with an unbound type variable,
this is an example of HTML
with an unbound type variable.
And yeah, we could also call it a message
with a lowercase m if we wanted to.
Okay, all of which is to say
this is compatible with HTML
that produces that type of message.
This is compatible with HTML
that produces anything.
And that also is, this pattern sort
of continues with commands, right?
This is a command that produces messages
that have a type message with a capital M.
Which means that it works
with update functions that
accept message with the capital M.
And command is a lower case m says,
I don't produce any messages,
which means I work with
any update function.
All of this is relevant because
this is what we're going to use,
Cmd with a lowercase m,
to talk to JavaScript.
It's a command where we're going to
send a value out to JavaScript, and
it's gonna be fire and forget.
We're gonna say here you go, JavaScript.
Here is this command,
here is this piece of data, bye!
And JavaScript is gonna have a callback
that's gonna listen to that and
grab onto it and
maybe do some JavaScript stuff, maybe not.
But the point is there's no callback here
on the Elm site, it's not like we send off
to JavaScript and then JavaScript
definitely sends the message back.
This lower case m indicates that,
yeah, you know what,
this command can be used anywhere.
It can be used across applications,
whatever,
because it never produces any messages.